docs/pages/api-docs/data-grid/grid-col-def.md, before:

# GridColDef Interface

<p class="description">Column Definition interface.</p>

## Import

```js
import { GridColDef } from '@material-ui/x-grid';
// or
import { GridColDef } from '@material-ui/data-grid';
```

## Properties

| Name                                                                                                | Type                                                                                               | Default                                          | Description                                                                                                     |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <span class="prop-name optional">align<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>             | <span class="prop-type">GridAlignment</span>                                                       |                                                  | Allows to align the column values in cells.                                                                     |
| <span class="prop-name optional">cellClassName<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>     | <span class="prop-type">GridCellClassNamePropType</span>                                           |                                                  | Class name that will be added in cells for that column.                                                         |
| <span class="prop-name optional">description<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              |                                                  | The description of the column rendered as tooltip if the column header name is not fully displayed.             |
| <span class="prop-name optional">disableColumnMenu<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span> | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | If `true`, the column menu is disabled for this column.                                                         |
| <span class="prop-name optional">editable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>          | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | If `true`, the cells of the column are editable.                                                                |
| <span class="prop-name">field</span>                                                                | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              |                                                  | The column identifier. It's used to map with GridRowData values.                                                |
| <span class="prop-name optional">filterOperators<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>   | <span class="prop-type">GridFilterOperator[]</span>                                                |                                                  | Allows setting the filter operators for this column.                                                            |
| <span class="prop-name optional">filterable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>        | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">true<br /></span>     | If `true`, the column is filterable.                                                                            |
| <span class="prop-name optional">flex<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>              | <span class="prop-type">number</span>                                                              |                                                  | If set, it indicates that a column has fluid width. Range [0, ∞).                                               |
| <span class="prop-name optional">headerAlign<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">GridAlignment</span>                                                       |                                                  | Header cell element alignment.                                                                                  |
| <span class="prop-name optional">headerClassName<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>   | <span class="prop-type">GridColumnHeaderClassNamePropType</span>                                   |                                                  | Class name that will be added in the column header cell.                                                        |
| <span class="prop-name optional">headerName<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>        | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              |                                                  | The title of the column rendered in the column header cell.                                                     |
| <span class="prop-name optional">hide<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>              | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | If `true`, hide the column.                                                                                     |
| <span class="prop-name optional">hideSortIcons<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>     | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | Toggle the visibility of the sort icons.                                                                        |
| <span class="prop-name optional">renderCell<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>        | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridCellParams) =&gt; ReactNode</span>                            |                                                  | Allows to override the component rendered as cell for this column.                                              |
| <span class="prop-name optional">renderEditCell<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>    | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridCellParams) =&gt; ReactNode</span>                            |                                                  | Allows to override the component rendered in edit cell mode for this column.                                    |
| <span class="prop-name optional">renderHeader<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>      | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridColumnHeaderParams) =&gt; ReactNode</span>                    |                                                  | Allows to render a component in the column header cell.                                                         |
| <span class="prop-name optional">resizable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>         | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">true<br /></span>     | If `true`, the column is resizable.                                                                             |
| <span class="prop-name optional">sortComparator<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>    | <span class="prop-type">GridComparatorFn</span>                                                    |                                                  | A comparator function used to sort rows.                                                                        |
| <span class="prop-name optional">sortable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>          | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">true<br /></span>     | If `true`, the column is sortable.                                                                              |
| <span class="prop-name optional">type<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>              | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              | <span class="prop-default">'string'<br /></span> | Type allows to merge this object with a default definition [GridColDef](/api/data-grid/grid-col-def/).          |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueFormatter<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>    | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridValueFormatterParams) =&gt; GridCellValue</span>              |                                                  | Function that allows to apply a formatter before rendering its value.                                           |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueGetter<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridValueGetterParams) =&gt; GridCellValue</span>                 |                                                  | Function that allows to get a specific data instead of field to render in the cell.                             |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueOptions<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>      | <span class="prop-type">(string \| { label: string; value: any })[]</span>                         |                                                  | To be used in combination with `type: 'singleSelect'`. This is an array of the possible cell values and labels. |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueParser<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">(value: GridCellValue, params?: GridCellParams) =&gt; GridCellValue</span> |                                                  | Function that takes the user-entered value and converts it to a value used internally.                          |
| <span class="prop-name optional">width<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>             | <span class="prop-type">number</span>                                                              | <span class="prop-default">100<br /></span>      | Set the width of the column.                                                                                    |

Commit message:

[DataGrid] Allow to customize the columns exported as CSV (#2008)
* [DataGrid] Allow to customize the columns exported as CSV

* Run prettier

* Add field  in ColDef

* Fix

* RUn yarn docs:api

* Fix

* Code review

* Rename columnKeys => field for CSV export

* Run prettier

* Code review

* Code review

* Fix

docs/pages/api-docs/data-grid/grid-col-def.md, after:

# GridColDef Interface

<p class="description">Column Definition interface.</p>

## Import

```js
import { GridColDef } from '@material-ui/x-grid';
// or
import { GridColDef } from '@material-ui/data-grid';
```

## Properties

| Name                                                                                                | Type                                                                                               | Default                                          | Description                                                                                                     |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <span class="prop-name optional">align<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>             | <span class="prop-type">GridAlignment</span>                                                       |                                                  | Allows to align the column values in cells.                                                                     |
| <span class="prop-name optional">cellClassName<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>     | <span class="prop-type">GridCellClassNamePropType</span>                                           |                                                  | Class name that will be added in cells for that column.                                                         |
| <span class="prop-name optional">description<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              |                                                  | The description of the column rendered as tooltip if the column header name is not fully displayed.             |
| <span class="prop-name optional">disableColumnMenu<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span> | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | If `true`, the column menu is disabled for this column.                                                         |
| <span class="prop-name optional">disableExport<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>     | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | If `true`, this column will not be included in exports.                                                         |
| <span class="prop-name optional">editable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>          | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | If `true`, the cells of the column are editable.                                                                |
| <span class="prop-name">field</span>                                                                | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              |                                                  | The column identifier. It's used to map with GridRowData values.                                                |
| <span class="prop-name optional">filterOperators<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>   | <span class="prop-type">GridFilterOperator[]</span>                                                |                                                  | Allows setting the filter operators for this column.                                                            |
| <span class="prop-name optional">filterable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>        | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">true<br /></span>     | If `true`, the column is filterable.                                                                            |
| <span class="prop-name optional">flex<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>              | <span class="prop-type">number</span>                                                              |                                                  | If set, it indicates that a column has fluid width. Range [0, ∞).                                               |
| <span class="prop-name optional">headerAlign<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">GridAlignment</span>                                                       |                                                  | Header cell element alignment.                                                                                  |
| <span class="prop-name optional">headerClassName<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>   | <span class="prop-type">GridColumnHeaderClassNamePropType</span>                                   |                                                  | Class name that will be added in the column header cell.                                                        |
| <span class="prop-name optional">headerName<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>        | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              |                                                  | The title of the column rendered in the column header cell.                                                     |
| <span class="prop-name optional">hide<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>              | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | If `true`, hide the column.                                                                                     |
| <span class="prop-name optional">hideSortIcons<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>     | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">false<br /></span>    | Toggle the visibility of the sort icons.                                                                        |
| <span class="prop-name optional">renderCell<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>        | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridCellParams) =&gt; ReactNode</span>                            |                                                  | Allows to override the component rendered as cell for this column.                                              |
| <span class="prop-name optional">renderEditCell<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>    | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridCellParams) =&gt; ReactNode</span>                            |                                                  | Allows to override the component rendered in edit cell mode for this column.                                    |
| <span class="prop-name optional">renderHeader<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>      | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridColumnHeaderParams) =&gt; ReactNode</span>                    |                                                  | Allows to render a component in the column header cell.                                                         |
| <span class="prop-name optional">resizable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>         | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">true<br /></span>     | If `true`, the column is resizable.                                                                             |
| <span class="prop-name optional">sortComparator<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>    | <span class="prop-type">GridComparatorFn</span>                                                    |                                                  | A comparator function used to sort rows.                                                                        |
| <span class="prop-name optional">sortable<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>          | <span class="prop-type">boolean</span>                                                             | <span class="prop-default">true<br /></span>     | If `true`, the column is sortable.                                                                              |
| <span class="prop-name optional">type<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>              | <span class="prop-type">string</span>                                                              | <span class="prop-default">'string'<br /></span> | Type allows to merge this object with a default definition [GridColDef](/api/data-grid/grid-col-def/).          |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueFormatter<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>    | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridValueFormatterParams) =&gt; GridCellValue</span>              |                                                  | Function that allows to apply a formatter before rendering its value.                                           |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueGetter<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">(params: GridValueGetterParams) =&gt; GridCellValue</span>                 |                                                  | Function that allows to get a specific data instead of field to render in the cell.                             |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueOptions<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>      | <span class="prop-type">(string \| { label: string; value: any })[]</span>                         |                                                  | To be used in combination with `type: 'singleSelect'`. This is an array of the possible cell values and labels. |
| <span class="prop-name optional">valueParser<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>       | <span class="prop-type">(value: GridCellValue, params?: GridCellParams) =&gt; GridCellValue</span> |                                                  | Function that takes the user-entered value and converts it to a value used internally.                          |
| <span class="prop-name optional">width<sup><abbr title="optional">?</abbr></sup></span>             | <span class="prop-type">number</span>                                                              | <span class="prop-default">100<br /></span>      | Set the width of the column.                                                                                    |
